Okay,
guys,
um,
welcome back.
And then we're down to the pivot table code as opposed to pivot chart code,
which is what we were looking at in the last lecture.
Or so now we have to pivot tables.
We have a profit by sales body,
which gives us a little pivot table and tells us how much property sales person generated.
And then we have an equivalent public table called profit by category,
but gives us the same information but broken down by category.
And these are the two sets of code as we recorded them.
Now we can see here that the 1st 2 lines were range a 60 g 466 dot select,
which is identical in both instances.
Well,
because we have a day to capture routing way up the front,
we don't need tohave those now.
We also have a sheets.
Add now because we're going to be working in the newly created sheet and that will be the
active sheet.
We also don't need that bit of code so we can delete that.
Now,
let's get down to this first lack of code here.
If you have a look,
the only difference between the two of them is the table destination,
and in this instance it say she too,
because it had in a new sheet.
Which was she to at Row three Column one.
You'll notice that the source data for this table on the source data for this table is
exactly the same.
The only thing different in this first block of code is this.
Say's onto sheet to because he landed a new sheets and then they also added a new sheet on
it moved it to sheet three.
So essentially,
that's the same piece of code bar the destination on.
We're going to get around that by using the active sheet because we were creating a new
sheet and we're just gonna drop it into the active sheet will change which sell it goes
into,
but it's definitely going to be the active active sheet.
Okay,
so then we have the sheets to dock select in cells 31 We don't need that because we're
gonna be working on the active sheet.
Someone delete that from both of them,
and then we come down to this with end with part just yet.
And here is where the key difference between the two pieces of code is obviously this one
was called Pivot Table 11 and this was called pivot table 13.
That's because as you generate them,
they incremental number on Dhere is the difference.
This one say sales person this one say's category and essentially buy the naming of the
table.
That is the only difference between the two pieces of code.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to do everything that we want to do with this piece
of code just here on.
Then we're going to copy this,
pace it over here and just make a slight modification to the name on where we're going to
drop it.
So everything we're going to do in the next couple lectures is all gonna be on the profit
by sales spot.
Now,
the first thing that we need to do is build a can Katyn ated string to replace this here.
If you have a look at it,
you'll notice that the format is slightly different.
In fact,
you may see that better if I click off right.
You'll remember from when we did a pivot chart,
we had an apostrophe before the sheet name no What I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna copy all
of that,
and I'm gonna add it up here to our days at capture.
I'm going to say sorry.
Build So data string for pivot tables,
intent,
upholstery and paste.
That is the string that we're looking to build.
So I'm just gonna portia second,
build that string and I'll be back with you in just a second.
Okay,
guys,
welcome back.
Now,
I have no of written this string.
That's no called my pin data,
which is my source sheet,
which we've already captured while we're looking at the source sheet on the apostrophe Me
partially here.
But instead of using the are the roast,
the R one C one format I would have done is said a six.
Because that's where we started our data dot current region dot address And that's gonna
dynamically capture that data region regardless of how big a list.
Now,
obviously it's the address that we want.
So can Katyn ated that is gonna return exactly the same string but in a one style,
because I want to use this across the module.
I've declared that way at the top here.
Our string and it holds the built date arranged for the profit by sales bod on and the
profit by category.
So now what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna copy that,
and I'm gonna pay sit over our data source.
You know,
I can eliminate the quotes on just paste that in there,
and the next thing we need to do is get rid of this pivot table name here.
So what we're gonna do Luckily,
renaming a pivot table is a lot simpler than renaming a pivot charts.
So all we need to do is say,
active sheet don't on.
Then we say pivot tables,
people,
tables from brackets,
open quotes on whatever the name of the pivot table is.
That's probably gonna error when I click off a movie.
It would copy that.
So at the moment are pivot table is called that and look,
Italy,
it's just a simple dot name.
And we're going to say,
here we're going to call it profit by sounds,
but proof by sales.
And that will be the name of our pivot table from now on.
So all they need to do is copy that on remove this reference to pivot table 11 on removed
that reference period.
Table 11 on.
There they go.
Were more or less good to go.
Okay,
so let's have a run of that code.
So what I'm gonna do is copy this.
I'm gonna have it.
So I run order way up the top.
Wherever it is up here,
we know the code works perfectly well up to this point.
So I'm just going to click on it.
This subroutine hit debug it,
run to cursor and he ago we can see that we are all the way through.
We've created this so far.
And now we're back over here.
F eight.
Andi the book.
What did I not do?
Right,
Okay.
I forgot to correct this on.
What we're gonna say is we want this in the active sheet at range.
And where should we have it?
Let's have it.
A 23 arrange a 23 close quotes close brackets Andi,
click off and there hopefully will get past that.
Bears are chart being built.
Pivot Table 11 is going to be changed to profit by sales.
But fantastic.
That is going to sort it by sales person.
They go,
there's ourselves,
folks Andi.
That should.
Then Oops,
debug whatever I missed off their picked a pivot table.
So this core profit by cells,
blood now isn't copy on.
That's going to be profit by sales spot on hopefully f eight.
On they go.
That is the end of our subroutine.
So fantastic.
But the next thing we're going to do is have a look change in this header from row labels
to something more meaningful.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.